Proposal sketch in Markdown for discussion (#103)
w3c/AB-public: Vision/proposal.md

# The Mission of the W3C

> The W3C leads the community in defining a World Wide Web that is inclusive and respectful of its users, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The W3C leads the community in defining technical standards and guidelines for a World Wide Web that is inclusive and respectful of its users, 
```
(this would give a clearer sense of what W3C is leading the community to do)

Author: rephrased in #111, please check there.

> to empower an ethical, equitable, informed, and interconnected society.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to empower an equitable, informed, and interconnected society.
```
I'm not sure what an "ethical" society is; I think our work definitely should be ethical, but I'm not sure how credible we can be in claiming our work helps make society "ethical".

Reviewer: re-filed in https://github.com/w3c/AB-public/pull/111/files#r1302738211

## **Introduction**
### The World Wide Web

The World Wide Web was originally conceived as a tool for sharing information. 
It has evolved rapidly into a fundamental part of humanity, 

> sparking major social change by providing access to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sparking major social change by providing and expanding access to 
```
(all of these things were already doable before the Web)

Author: fixed in #111.

knowledge, education, commerce and shopping, social experiences, civic functions, entertainment, and more.

> The Web's amazing success has also led to many unintended consequences that harm society: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Web's amazing success has also led to many undesirable consequences that harm society: 
```

Author: Added word, but "unintended" is very important to have here.

> openness and anonymity have given rise to scams, phishing, and fraud. 

Reviewer: I assume the 2 next sentences are additional items in the list of harms; having only one item listed right after the `:` and the sentence ending makes it a bit unclear. It also makes it unclear where the list ends ("Technology is not neutral" is no longer a harm). Hinting that this is not an exhaustive list of harms would probably be useful (e.g. by prefixing this as a list of current well-known issues).

Author: fixed in #111.

The ease of gathering personal information has led to business models that mine and sell detailed user data, without people's awareness or consent. 
Rapid global information sharing has allowed misinformation to flourish and be exploited for political and commercial gain. 
Technology is not neutral; 
new technologies enable new actions and new possibilities, and we must take responsibility to address the impacts of the Web.

We believe the World Wide Web should be inclusive and respectful of its users: 

> a Web that supports truth over falsehood, people over profits, humanity over hate. 

Reviewer: I'm a bit uncomfortable with L22 phrasing, e.g. "truth over falsehood" kind of feels "we" would define what truth is and makes sure the Web censors whatever doesn't fit. Society (or societies, really) has developed plenty of mechanisms to determine what it collectively wants to support, incl. in terms of avoiding harms that would derive from falsehoods. I think we should strive to make the Web support the implementation of these mechanisms, and avoid undermining them - not necessarily encode what's their outcome should be. I'm not sure how to formulate that in a way that doesn't feel administrative.

Reviewer: filed #113

The Web has had a tremendous impact on the world, and will continue to grow its impact in the future, 
by expanding reach, knowledge, education and services even more broadly.

### The W3C

The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) was founded as an organization to provide a consistent architecture across the rapid pace of progress in the Web, 
and to build a common community to support its development. 
It has become an association where diverse voices from around the world and industries work together to evolve the Web.

To build a better future, the W3C must rise even further to the challenge of improving the Web's fundamental integrity, 
while continuing to expand the Web’s scope and reach. 
We must embody in our work the core values of the Web itself, 
by supporting the Ethical Web Principles with Operational Principles of the W3C.

The W3C’s impact will be clearly demonstrated by how it leads the Web forward: 
by being inclusive, principled, and continually striving to make the Web better through these principles and the Ethical Web Principles. 
As the Ethical Web Principles state, “The web should empower an equitable, informed and interconnected society.”

> ## Operational Principles of the W3C

Reviewer 2: Unless there's a good reason, I'd like it better if it were titled "Principles" [of W3C|of the World Wide Web Consortium] instead of "Operational Principles [...]".

* The W3C intentionally involves stakeholders from end to end in building the Web: developers, content creators, and end users.
  Our work will not be dominated by any person, company, or interest group, but uses consensus from the community
  to put the needs of users first: above authors, publishers, and implementers.
* We believe in the diversity of the Web, and its inclusion of participants
  from different geographical locations, cultures, languages, disabilities, gender identities, industries, user groups, organizational sizes, and more.

>   In addition to ensuring the W3C serves the needs of the entire Web user base,

Reviewer: I'm not sure that this is "in addition" - I think it's critical we broaden participation if we want to serve the entire Web user base.

Author: Reworded in #111.

  we must also strive to broaden diversity and inclusion for our own participants.

> * We strive to create standards with an ethical intent to improve equity of access and participation on the Web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We strive to create standards that improve equity of access and participation on the Web.
```
I'm not sure what "ethical intent" buys here

Author: underscoring that this is an intentional choice, not just a circumstantial result.

>   We will ensure the web platform meets broad goals using consistent horizontal review

Reviewer: the term "web platform" isn't used elsewhere in the document; it's sometimes interpreted specifically as the particular set of technologies implemented by web browsers, which I don't think is what is meant. I was going to suggest "the Web", but maybe this meant to more specifically refer to its technical infrastructure? (maybe "technical infrastructure of the Web" then?)

Author: Fixed in #111.

  to ensure accessibility, internationalization, security, privacy, and sustainability.

> * We believe wide and interoperable implementation is a requirement for standards.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what is meant by "wide implementation". Our process only expects 2 implementations, and many of our most successful standards only get 3. I don't think we should confuse implementation and adoption.

  To ensure reliable interoperability, we require multiple implementations and open test suites for our standards.
* The Web will continue to expand in user base, global reach, and technical breadth.

>   We are committed to encouraging incubation in new areas, collaborating on new innovations across our community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  We are committed to encouraging incubation in new areas, collaborating on innovations across our community.
```
(new innovations feels redundant)

Author: fixed in #111.

* We exclusively create open royalty-free standards.
  Our process is rooted in open development, strong royalty-free patent policy and open copyright licenses.
* The W3C is committed to collaborative relationships with other Internet and Web standards organizations,

>   including building and maintaining respected relationships with governments and businesses for providing credible advice.

Reviewer: "including" feels off since governments and businesses aren't Internet and Web standards organizations.
```suggestion
  and building and maintaining respected relationships with governments and businesses for providing credible advice.
```
